---
layout: post
title: Dynamic Mean-Field Theory
image: /images/research/dmft.png
thumbnail: /images/research/dmft.png
simframework: true
authors: Rob Riggleman
publication-dois:
 - 10.1021/acs.macromol.7b01731
 - 10.1063/1.4982216
 - 10.1039/C6SM00770H
---

One of our major methodological developments has been our ability to translate our PNC-FT models to the recently-proposed dynamic mean-field theory (DMFT) outlined by [Fredrickson and Orland](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.4865911), which enables us to study the same family of models using a [dynamic theory](/publications/chao-solvent-annealing/) that can qualitatively capture the effects of processing on the structure of inhomogeneous polymer nanocomposites. The framework is qualitatively similar to the single-chain in mean-field (SCMF) approach of [Mueller et al.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.2364506) and the self-consistent Brownian dynamics (SCBD) method of [Ganesan et al.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1557052), but the solid theoretical basis provided by Fredrickson and Orland provides the possibility for systematically improving the methods by [adding hydrodynamic interactions](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.459082), for example.

We have employed our dynamic mean field theory (DMFT) to study how solvent annealing affects the distribution of nanoparticles in block copolymer thin films (see image above). Solvent annealing is a process through which a block copolymer thin film is exposed to the vapor of a volatile solvent, which absorbs into the film, swelling and plasticizing the block copolymer. Solvent vapor annealing is widely used to reduce the density of defects in block copolymer films, and it is finding increased usage in block copolymer nanocomposite thin films. We have shown that for lamellar films swollen with a neutral solvent, if we tune the interfacial activity of the nanoparticles by varying the grafting density of polymers on the particle surface, we can tune the equilibrium distribution of nanoparticles. At some particular surface chemistries, we find that the solvent will displace the particles from the free surface, leading to interfacially-active particles becoming mixed in the polymer film. Under these conditions, when the solvent is rapidly evaporated from the film, we can trap the particles in the distribution they adopt in the swollen state. However, if the solvent is removed slowly, then the particles have sufficient time to anneal back to their equilibrium distribution in the dry state. [This work](/publications/chao-solvent-annealing/) was recently published in *Soft Matter*.
